# local-volume-provisioner-bootstrap

local-volume-provisioner-bootstrap is used to bootstrap provisioner. The main use
case of bootstrapper is to make provisioner configurable. Below is a detailed flow
of how the bootstrap process works:

- looks for a configmap passed in via flag `-volume-config`; otherwise, a default
  configmap named `local-volume-default-config` will be created
- reads and validates the configmap, then auto-generates missing configurations,
  see below
- looks for a service account passed in via flag `-serviceaccount`; otherwise, a
  default service account named `local-storage-admin` will be created
- creates two cluster role bindings for the service account, i.e. `system:persistent-volume-provisioner`
  and `system:node`. The role bindings are named `local-storage:provisioner-node-binding` and
  `local-storage:provisioner-pv-binding` respectively.
- creates provisioner daemonset based on the service account, volume configmap,
  `-image` option, etc
- exit

## Configuration

### Volume config

Volume config is a map from storage class to volume configuration, i.e. `map[string]MountConfig`,
where `MountConfig` is the configuration for a single volume, see below.

```go
type MountConfig struct {
	// The hostpath directory
	HostDir string `json:"hostDir"`
	// The mount point of the hostpath volume
	MountDir string `json:"mountDir"`
}
```

- `HostDir` is required; it points to the directory where provisioner looks for
  local volumes.
- `MountDir` is optional, it is the path inside container where `hostDir` is mounted
  to. If omitted, `MountDir` will be auto-generated by bootstrapper. The generation
  rule is to trim '/' prefix and change "/" to "~" (based on kubernetes convention),
  then concatenate with root path. For example, suppose `-mountRoot` flag equals to
  "/mnt/local-storage" and `hostDir` equals to "/mnt/others", then generated `MountDir`
  will be "/mnt/local-storage/mnt~others".

Below is an example configmap:

```yaml
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: local-volume-config
  namespace: kube-system
data:
  storageClassMap: |
    local-fast: 
       hostDir: "/mnt/ssds"
       mountDir: "/local-ssds"
    local-slow:
       hostDir: "/mnt/hdds"
       mountDir: "/local-hdds"
    local-storage:
      hostDir: "/mnt/disks"
```

An example of using the bootstraper is included [here](../README.md).

### PV Label Config (optional)

One can (optionally) also configure the provisioner to copy certain labels from the node to the PVs of
the local volumes on that node. For example in the config below, the admin has chosen to copy the labels
failure-domain.beta.kubernetes.io/zone and failure-domain.beta.kubernetes.io/region from the node to the
PVs as those zone and region labels are quite applicable to the local volume PVs of that node.

```yaml
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: local-volume-config
  namespace: kube-system
data:
  nodeLabelsForPV: |
    - failure-domain.beta.kubernetes.io/zone
    - failure-domain.beta.kubernetes.io/region
  storageClassMap: |
    local-fast: 
       hostDir: "/mnt/ssds"
       mountDir: "/local-ssds"
    local-slow:
       hostDir: "/mnt/hdds"
       mountDir: "/local-hdds"
    local-storage:
      hostDir: "/mnt/disks"
```

### Command line options

To see all options, compile bootstrapper and use `-h` option, below is a curated
list of important options:

- `-image`: Name of local volume provisioner image (default "quay.io/external_storage/local-volume-provisioner")
- `-volume-config`: Name of the local volume configuration configmap. The configmap
  must reside in the same namespace with bootstrapper. (default "local-volume-default-config")
- `-serviceaccount`: Name of the service accout for local volume provisioner
  (default "local-storage-admin")

## Development

Compile the bootstrapper:

```console
make
```

Make the container image and push to the registry
``` console
make push
```

Deploy to existing cluster:

```console
kubectl create -f deployment/kubernetes/example-config.yaml
kubectl create -f deployment/kubernetes/admin-account.yaml
kubectl create -f deployment/kubernetes/bootstrapper.yaml
```

## Future improvements

- Right now, bootstrapper is bound to cluster-admin role and provisioner is bound
  to system:node, system:persistent-volume-provisioner, these roles have more
  more privileges than we need. As a future enhancemnet, we can look into using
  different roles with fewer permissions.
- Bootstrapper will update user-created configmap if `MountDir` is omitted from
  user. We choose to update the confimap instead of auto-generating a new one
  because 1. the config will be shared between bootstrapper and provisioner; 2.
  the config only has settings for volumes so it won't mis-configure any other
  settings. We can revisit this when we have more settings in this configmap.
- Auto-generated `MountDir` doesn't take path length into consideration. If user
  provides a very long `HostPath`, bootstrapper will fail to create `MountDir`.
